
                                        STAR WARS

                                        Episode IV

                                        A NEW HOPE

                                         From the
                                  JOURNAL OF THE WHILLS

                                            by
                                       George Lucas

                                   Revised Fourth Draft
                                     January 15, 1976

                                      LUCASFILM LTD.

                

               A long time ago, in a galaxy far, far, away...

               A vast sea of stars serves as the backdrop for the main title. 
               War drums echo through the heavens as a rollup slowly crawls 
               into infinity.

                    It is a period of civil war. Rebel spaceships, 
                    striking from a hidden base, have won their first 
                    victory against the evil Galactic Empire.

                    During the battle, Rebel spies managed to steal 
                    secret plans to the Empire's ultimate weapon, the 
                    Death Star, an armored space station with enough 
                    power to destroy an entire planet.

                    Pursued by the Empire's sinister agents, Princess 
                    Leia races home aboard her starship, custodian of 
                    the stolen plans that can save her people and 
                    restore freedom to the galaxy...

               The awesome yellow planet of Tatooine emerges from a total 
               eclipse, her two moons glowing against the darkness. A tiny 
               silver spacecraft, a Rebel Blockade Runner firing lasers 
               from the back of the ship, races through space. It is pursed 
               by a giant Imperial Stardestroyer. Hundreds of deadly 
               laserbolts streak from the Imperial Stardestroyer, causing 
               the main solar fin of the Rebel craft to disintegrate.

               INT. REBEL BLOCKADE RUNNER - MAIN PASSAGEWAY

               An explosion rocks the ship as two robots, Artoo-Detoo (R2-
               D2) and See-Threepio (C-3PO) struggle to make their way 
               through the shaking, bouncing passageway. Both robots are 
               old and battered. Artoo is a short, claw-armed tripod. His 
               face is a mass of computer lights surrounding a radar eye. 
               Threepio, on the other hand, is a tall, slender robot of 
               human proportions. He has a gleaming bronze-like metallic 
               surface of an Art Deco design.

               Another blast shakes them as they struggle along their way.

                                     THREEPIO
                         Did you hear that? They've shut down 
                         the main reactor. We'll be destroyed 
                         for sure. This is madness!

               Rebel troopers rush past the robots and take up positions in 
               the main passageway. They aim their weapons toward the door.

                                     THREEPIO
                         We're doomed!

               The little R2 unit makes a series of electronic sounds that 
               only another robot could understand.

                                     THREEPIO
                         There'll be no escape for the Princess 
                         this time.

               Artoo continues making beeping sounds. Tension mounts as 
               loud metallic latches clank and the scream of heavy equipment 
               are heard moving around the outside hull of the ship.

                                     THREEPIO
                         What's that?

               EXT. SPACECRAFT IN SPACE

               The Imperial craft has easily overtaken the Rebel Blockade 
               Runner. The smaller Rebel ship is being drawn into the 
               underside dock of the giant Imperial starship.

               INT. REBEL BLOCKADE RUNNER

               The nervous Rebel troopers aim their weapons. Suddenly a 
               tremendous blast opens up a hole in the main passageway and 
               a score of fearsome armored spacesuited stormtroopers make 
               their way into the smoke-filled corridor.

               In a few minutes the entire passageway is ablaze with 
               laserfire. The deadly bolts ricochet in wild random patterns 
               creating huge explosions. Stormtroopers scatter and duck 
               behind storage lockers. Laserbolts hit several Rebel soldiers 
               who scream and stagger through the smoke, holding shattered 
               arms and faces.

               An explosion hits near the robots.

                                     THREEPIO
                         I should have known better than to 
                         trust the logic of a half-sized 
                         thermocapsulary dehousing assister...

               Artoo counters with an angry rebuttal as the battle rages 
               around the two hapless robots.

               EXT. TATOOINE - DESERT WASTELAND - DAY

               A death-white wasteland stretches from horizon to horizon. 
               The tremendous heat of two huge twin suns settle on a lone 
               figure, Luke Skywalker, a farm boy with heroic aspirations 
               who looks much younger than his eighteen years. His shaggy 
               hair and baggy tunic give him the air of a simple but lovable 
               lad with a prize-winning smile.

               A light wind whips at him as he adjusts several valves on a 
               large battered moisture vaporator which sticks out of the 
               desert floor much like an oil pipe with valves. He is aided 
               by a beatup tread-robot with six claw arms. The little robot 
               appears to be barely functioning and moves with jerky motions.  
               A bright sparkle in the morning sky catches Luke's eye and 
               he instinctively grabs a pair of electrobinoculars from his 
               utility belt. He stands transfixed for a few moments studying 
               the heavens, then dashed toward his dented, crudely repaired 
               Landspeeder (an auto-like transport that travels a few feet 
               above the ground on a magnetic-field). He motions for the 
               tiny robot to follow him.

                                     LUKE
                         Hurry up! Come with me! What are you 
                         waiting for?! Get in gear!

               The robot scoots around in a tight circle, stops short, and 
               smoke begins to pour out of every joint. Luke throws his 
               arms up in disgust. Exasperated, the young farm boy jumps 
               into his Landspeeder leaving the smoldering robot to hum 
               madly.

               INT. REBEL BLOCKADE RUNNER - MAIN HALLWAY

               The awesome, seven-foot-tall Dark Lord of the Sith makes his 
               way into the blinding light of the main passageway. This is 
               Darth Vader, right hand of the Emperor. His face is obscured 
               by his flowing black robes and grotesque breath mask, which 
               stands out next to the fascist white armored suits of the 
               Imperial stormtroopers. Everyone instinctively backs away 
               from the imposing warrior and a deathly quiet sweeps through 
               the Rebel troops. Several of the Rebel troops break and run 
               in a frenzied panic.

               INT. REBEL BLOCKADE RUNNER

               A woman's hand puts a card into an opening in Artoo's dome.  
               Artoo makes beeping sounds.

               INT. REBEL BLOCKADE RUNNER

               Threepio stands in a hallway, somewhat bewildered. Artoo is 
               nowhere in sight. The pitiful screams of the doomed Rebel 
               soldiers can be heard in the distance.

                                     THREEPIO
                         Artoo! Artoo-Detoo, where are you?

               A familiar clanking sound attacks Threepio's attention and 
               he spots little Artoo at the end of the hallway in a smoke-
               filled alcove. A beautiful young girl (about sixteen years 
               old) stands in front of Artoo. Surreal and out of place, 
               dreamlike and half hidden in the smoke, she finishes adjusting 
               something on Artoo's computer face, then watches as the little 
               robot joins his companion.

                                     THREEPIO
                         At last! Where have you been?

               Stormtroopers can be heard battling in the distance.

                                     THREEPIO
                         They're heading in this direction. 
                         What are we going to do? We'll be 
                         sent to the spice mine of Kessel or 
                         smashed into who knows what!

               Artoo scoots past his bronze friend and races down the 
               subhallway. Threepio chases after him.

                                     THREEPIO
                         Wait a minute, where are you going?

               Artoo responds with electronic beeps.

               INT. REBEL BLOCKADE RUNNER - CORRIDOR

               The evil Darth Vader stands amid the broken and twisted bodies 
               of his foes. He grabs a wounded Rebel Officer by the neck as 
               an Imperial Officer rushes up to the Dark Lord.

                                     IMPERIAL OFFICER
                         The Death Star plans are not in the 
                         main computer.

               Vader squeezes the neck of the Rebel Officer, who struggles 
               in vain.

                                     VADER
                         Where are those transmissions you 
                         intercepted?

               Vader lifts the Rebel off his feet by his throat.

                                     VADER
                         What have you done with those plans?

                                     REBEL OFFICER
                         We intercepted no transmissions. 
                         Aaah... This is a consular ship. 
                         Were on a diplomatic mission.

                                     VADER
                         If this is a consular ship... were 
                         is the Ambassador?

               The Rebel refuses to speak but eventually cries out as the 
               Dark Lord begins to squeeze the officer's throat, creating a 
               gruesome snapping and choking, until the soldier goes limp. 
               Vader tosses the dead soldier against the wall and turns to 
               his troops.

                                     VADER
                         Commander, tear this ship apart until 
                         you've found those plans and bring 
                         me the Ambassador. I want her alive!

               The stormtroopers scurry into the subhallways.

               INT. REBEL BLOCKADE RUNNER - SUBHALLWAY

               The lovely young girl huddles in a small alcove as the 
               stormtroopers search through the ship. She is Princess Leia 
               Organa, a member of the Alderaan Senate. The fear in her 
               eyes slowly gives way to anger as the muted crushing sounds 
               of the approaching stormtroopers grow louder. One of the 
               troopers spots her.

                                     TROOPER
                         There she is! Set for stun!

               Leia steps from her hiding place and blasts a trooper with 
               her laser pistol. She starts to run but is felled by a 
               paralyzing ray. The troopers inspect her inert body.

                                     TROOPER
                         She'll be all right. Inform Lord 
                         Vader we have a prisoner.

               INT. REBEL BLOCKADE RUNNER - SUBHALLWAY

               Artoo stops before the small hatch of an emergency lifepod. 
               He snaps the seal on the main latch and a red warning light 
               begins to flash. The stubby astro-robot works his way into 
               the cramped four-man pod.

                                     THREEPIO
                         Hey, you're not permitted in there. 
                         It's restricted. You'll be deactivated 
                         for sure..

               Artoo beeps something to him.

                                     THREEPIO
                         Don't call me a mindless philosopher, 
                         you overweight glob of grease! Now 
                         come out before somebody sees you.

               Artoo whistles something at his reluctant friend regarding 
               the mission he is about to perform.

                                     THREEPIO
                         Secret mission? What plans? What are 
                         you talking about? I'm not getting 
                         in there!

               Artoo isn't happy with Threepio's stubbornness, and he beeps 
               and twangs angrily.

               A new explosion, this time very close, sends dust and debris 
               through the narrow subhallway. Flames lick at Threepio and, 
               after a flurry of electronic swearing from Artoo, the lanky 
               robot jumps into the lifepod.

                                     THREEPIO
                         I'm going to regret this.

               INT. IMPERIAL STARDESTROYER

               On the main viewscreen, the lifepod carrying the two terrified 
               robots speeds away from the stricken Rebel spacecraft.

                                     CHIEF PILOT
                         There goes another one.

                                     CAPTAIN
                         Hold your fire. There are no life 
                         forms. It must have been short-
                         circuited.

               INT. LIFEPOD

               Artoo and Threepio look out at the receding Imperial starship.  
               Stars circle as the pod rotates through the galaxy.

                                     THREEPIO
                         That's funny, the damage doesn't 
                         look as bad from out here.

               Artoo beeps an assuring response.

                                     THREEPIO
                         Are you sure this things safe?

               EXT. TATOOINE - ANCHORHEAD SETTLEMENT - POWER STATION - DAY

               Heat waves radiate from the dozen or so bleached white 
               buildings. Luke pilots his Landspeeder through the dusty 
               empty street of the tiny settlement. An old woman runs to 
               get out of the way of the speeding vehicle, shaking her fist 
               at Luke as he flies past.

                                     WOMAN
                         I've told you kids to slow down!

               INT. POWER STATION - DAY

               Luke bursts into the power station, waking The Fixer, a rugged 
               mechanic and Camie, a sexy, disheveled girl who has been 
               asleep in his lap. They grumbled as he races through the 
               office, yelling wildly.

                                     FIXER
                         Did I hear a young noise blast through 
                         here?

                                     CAMIE
                         It was just wormie on another rampage.

               Luke bounces into a small room behind the office where Deak 
               and Windy, two tough boys about the same age as Luke, are 
               playing a computer pool-like game with Biggs, a burly, 
               handsome boy a few years older than the rest. His flashy 
               city attire is a sharp contrast to the loose-fitting tunics 
               of the farm boys. A robot repairs some equipment in the 
               background.

                                     LUKE
                         Shape it up you guys!... Biggs?

               Luke's surprise at the appearance of Biggs gives way to great 
               joy and emotion. They give each other a great bear hug.

                                     LUKE
                         I didn't know you were back! When 
                         did you get in?

                                     BIGGS
                         Just now. I wanted to surprise you, 
                         hot shot. I thought you'd be here... 
                         certainly didn't expect you to be 
                         out working.
                              (he laughs)

                                     LUKE
                         The Academy didn't change you 
                         much...but you're back so soon? Hey, 
                         what happened, didn't you get your 
                         commission?

               Biggs has an air of cool that seems slightly phony.

                                     BIGGS
                         Of course I got it. Signed aboard 
                         The Rand Ecliptic last week. First 
                         mate Biggs Darklighter at your 
                         service...
                              (he salutes)
                         ...I just came to say good-bye to 
                         all you unfortunate landlocked 
                         simpletons.

               Everyone laughs. The dazzling spectacle of his dashing friend 
               is almost too much for Luke, but suddenly he snaps out of 
               it.

                                     LUKE
                         I almost forgot. There's a battle 
                         going on! Right here in our system. 
                         Come and look!

                                     DEAK
                         Not again! Forget it.

               EXT. TATOOINE - ANCHORHEAD - SETTLEMENT - POWER STATION - 
               DAY

               The group stumbles out into the stifling desert sun. Camie 
               and The Fixer complain and are forced to shade their eyes. 
               Luke has his binoculars out scanning the heavens.

                                     LUKE
                         There they are!

               Biggs takes the binoculars from Luke as the others strain to 
               see something with the naked eye. Through the binoculars 
               Biggs sees two small silver specks.

                                     BIGGS
                         That's no battle, hot shot... they're 
                         just sitting there! Probably a 
                         freighter-tanker refueling.

                                     LUKE
                         But there was a lot of firing 
                         earlier...

               Camie grabs the binoculars away banging them against the 
               building in the process. Luke grabs them.

                                     LUKE
                         Hey, easy with those...

                                     CAMIE
                         Don't worry about it, Wormie.

               The Fixer gives Luke a hard look and the young farm boy shrugs 
               his shoulders in resignation.

                                     FIXER
                         I keep telling you, the Rebellion is 
                         a long way from here. I doubt if the 
                         Empire would even fight to keep this 
                         system. Believe me Luke, this planet 
                         is a big hunk of nothing...

               Luke agrees, although it's obvious he isn't sure why. The 
               group stumbles back into the power station, grumbling about 
               Luke's ineptitude.

               INT. REBEL BLOCKADE RUNNER - HALLWAY

               Princess Leia is led down a low-ceilinged hallway by a squad 
               of armored stormtroopers. Her hands are bound and she is 
               brutally shoved when she is unable to keep up with the briskly 
               marching troops. They stop in a smoky hallway as Darth Vader 
               emerges from the shadows. The sinister Dark Lord stares hard 
               at the frail young senator, but she doesn't move.

                                     LEIA
                         Lord Vader, I should have known. 
                         Only you could be so bold. The 
                         Imperial Senate will not sit for 
                         this, when they hear you've attacked 
                         a diplomatic...

                                     VADER
                         Don't play games with me, Your 
                         Highness. You weren't on any mercy 
                         mission this time. You passed directly 
                         through a restricted system. Several 
                         transmissions were beamed to this 
                         ship by Rebel spies. I want to know 
                         what happened to the plans they sent 
                         you.

                                     LEIA
                         I don't know what you're talking 
                         about. I'm a member of the Imperial 
                         Senate on a diplomatic mission to 
                         Alderaan...

                                     VADER
                         You're a part of the Rebel Alliance... 
                         and a traitor. Take her away!

               Leia is marched away down the hallway and into the smoldering 
               hole blasted in the side of the ship. An Imperial Commander 
               turns to Vader.

                                     COMMANDER
                         Holding her is dangerous. If word of 
                         this gets out, it could generate 
                         sympathy for the Rebellion in the 
                         senate.

                                     VADER
                         I have traced the Rebel spies to 
                         her. Now she is my only link to find 
                         their secret base!

                                     COMMANDER
                         She'll die before she tells you 
                         anything.

                                     VADER
                         Leave that to me. Send a distress 
                         signal and then inform the senate 
                         that all aboard were killed!

               Another Imperial Officer approaches Vader and the Commander. 
               They stop and snap to attention.

                                     SECOND OFFICER
                         Lord Vader, the battle station plans 
                         are not aboard this ship! And no 
                         transmissions were made. An escape 
                         pod was jettisoned during the 
                         fighting, but no life forms were 
                         aboard.

               Vader turns to the Commander.

                                     VADER
                         She must have hidden the plans in 
                         the escape pod. Send a detachment 
                         down to retrieve them. See to it 
                         personally, Commander. There'll be 
                         no one to stop us this time.

                                     COMMANDER
                         Yes, sir.

               EXT. SPACE

               The Imperial Stardestroyer comes over the surface of the 
               planet Tatooine.

               EXT. TATOOINE - DESERT

               Jundland, or "No Man's Land", where the rugged desert mesas 
               meet the foreboding dune sea. The two helpless astro-droids 
               kick up clouds of sand as they leave the lifepod and clumsily 
               work their way across the desert wasteland. The lifepod in 
               the distance rests half buried in the sand.

                                     THREEPIO
                         How did I get into this mess? I really 
                         don't know how. We seem to be made 
                         to suffer. It's our lot in life.

               Artoo answers with beeping sounds.

                                     THREEPIO
                         I've got to rest before I fall apart. 
                         My joints are almost frozen.

               Artoo continues to respond with beeping sounds.

                                     THREEPIO
                         What a desolate place this is.

               Suddenly Artoo whistles, makes a sharp right turn and starts 
               off in the direction of the rocky desert mesas. Threepio 
               stops and yells at him.

                                     THREEPIO
                         Where are you going?

               A stream of electronic noises pours forth from the small 
               robot.

                                     THREEPIO
                         Well, I'm not going that way. It's 
                         much too rocky. This way is much 
                         easier.

               Artoo counters with a long whistle.

                                     THREEPIO
                         What makes you think there are 
                         settlements over there?

               Artoo continues to make beeping sounds.

                                     THREEPIO
                         Don't get technical with me.

               Artoo continues to make beeping sounds.

                                     THREEPIO
                         What mission? What are you talking 
                         about? I've had just about enough of 
                         you! Go that way! You'll be 
                         malfunctioning within a day, you 
                         nearsighted scrap pile!

               Threepio gives the little robot a kick and starts off in the 
               direction of the vast dune sea.

                                     THREEPIO
                         And don't let me catch you following 
                         me begging for help, because you 
                         won't get it.

               Artoo's reply is a rather rude sound. He turns and trudges 
               off in the direction of the towering mesas.

                                     THREEPIO
                         No more adventures. I'm not going 
                         that way.

               Artoo beeps to himself as he makes his way toward the distant 
               mountains.

               EXT. TATOOINE - DUNE SEA

               Threepio, hot and tired, struggles up over the ridge of a 
               dune; only to find more dunes, which seem to go on for endless 
               miles.  He looks back in the direction of the now distant 
               rock mesas.

                                     THREEPIO
                         That malfunctioning little twerp. 
                         This is all his fault! He tricked me 
                         into going this way, but he'll do no 
                         better.

               In a huff of anger and frustration, Threepio knocks the sand 
               from his joints. His plight seems hopeless, when a glint of 
               reflected light in the distance reveals an object moving 
               towards him.

                                     THREEPIO
                         Wait, what's that? A transport! I'm 
                         saved!

               The bronze android waves frantically and yells at the 
               approaching transport.

                                     THREEPIO
                         Over here! Help! Please, help!

               EXT. TATOOINE - ANCHORHEAD SETTLEMENT - POWER STATION - DAY

               Luke and Biggs are walking and drinking a malt brew. Fixer 
               and the others can be heard working inside.

                                     LUKE
                              (Very animated)
                         ...so I cut off my power, shut down 
                         the afterburners and came in low on 
                         Deak's trail. I was so close I thought 
                         I was going to fry my instruments. 
                         As it was I busted up the Skyhopper 
                         pretty bad. Uncle Owen was pretty 
                         upset. He grounded me for the rest 
                         of the season. You should have been 
                         there... it was fantastic.

                                     BIGGS
                         You ought to take it easy Luke. You 
                         may be the hottest bushpilot this 
                         side of Mos Eisley, but those little 
                         Skyhoppers are dangerous. Keep it 
                         up, and one day, whammo, you're going 
                         to be nothing more than a dark spot 
                         on the down side of a canyon wall.

                                     LUKE
                         Look who's talking. Now that you've 
                         been around those giant starships 
                         you're beginning to sound like my 
                         uncle. You've gotten soft in the 
                         city...

                                     BIGGS
                         I've missed you kid.

                                     LUKE
                         Well, things haven't been the same 
                         since you left, Biggs. It's been 
                         so... quiet.

               Biggs looks around then leans close to Luke.

                                     BIGGS
                         Luke, I didn't come back just to say 
                         good-bye... I shouldn't tell you 
                         this, but you're the only one I can 
                         trust... and if I don't come back, I 
                         want somebody to know.

               Luke's eyes are wide with Biggs' seriousness and loyalty.

                                     LUKE
                         What are you talking about?

                                     BIGGS
                         I made some friends at the Academy.
                              (he whispers)
                         ...when our frigate goes to one of 
                         the central systems, we're going to 
                         jump ship and join the Alliance...

               Luke, amazed and stunned, is almost speechless.

                                     LUKE
                         Join the Rebellion?! Are you kidding! 
                         How?

                                     BIGGS
                         Quiet down will ya! You got a mouth 
                         bigger than a meteor crater!

                                     LUKE
                         I'm sorry. I'm quiet.
                              (he whispers)
                         Listen how quiet I am. You can barely 
                         hear me...

               Biggs shakes his head angrily and then continues.

                                     BIGGS
                         My friend has a friend on Bestine 
                         who might help us make contact.

                                     LUKE
                         You're crazy! You could wander around 
                         forever trying to find them.

                                     BIGGS
                         I know it's a long shot, but if I 
                         don't find them I'll do what I can 
                         on my own... It's what we always 
                         talked about. Luke, I'm not going to 
                         wait for the Empire to draft me into 
                         service. The Rebellion is spreading 
                         and I want to be on the right side -- 
                         the side I believe in.

                                     LUKE
                         And I'm stuck here...

                                     BIGGS
                         I thought you were going to the 
                         Academy next term. You'll get your 
                         chance to get off this rock.

                                     LUKE
                         Not likely! I had to cancel my 
                         application. There has been a lot of 
                         unrest among the Sandpeople since 
                         you left... they've even raided the 
                         outskirts of Anchorhead.

                                     BIGGS
                         Your uncle could hold off a whole 
                         colony of Sandpeople with one blaster.

                                     LUKE
                         I know, but he's got enough vaporators 
                         going to make the place pay off. He 
                         needs me for just one more season. I 
                         can't leave him now.

                                     BIGGS
                         I feel for you, Luke, you're going 
                         to have to learn what seems to be 
                         important or what really is important. 
                         What good is all your uncle's work 
                         if it's taken over by the Empire?... 
                         You know they're starting to 
                         nationalize commerce in the central 
                         systems... it won't be long before 
                         your uncle is merely a tenant, slaving 
                         for the greater glory of the Empire.

                                     LUKE
                         It couldn't happen here. You said it 
                         yourself. The Empire won't bother 
                         with this rock.

                                     BIGGS
                         Things always change.

                                     LUKE
                         I wish I was going... Are you going 
                         to be around long?

                                     BIGGS
                         No, I'm leaving in the morning...

                                     LUKE
                         Then I guess I won't see you.

                                     BIGGS
                         Maybe someday... I'll keep a lookout.

                                     LUKE
                         Well, I'll be at the Academy next 
                         season... after that who knows. I 
                         won't be drafted into the Imperial 
                         Starfleet that's for sure... Take 
                         care of yourself, you'll always be 
                         the best friend I've got.

                                     BIGGS
                         So long, Luke.

               Biggs turns away from his old friend and heads towards the 
               power station.

               EXT. TATOOINE - ROCK CANYON - SUNSET

               The gargantuan rock formations are shrouded in a strange 
               foreboding mist and the onimous sounds of unearthly creatures 
               fill the air. Artoo moves cautiously through the creepy rock 
               canyon, inadvertently making a loud clicking noise as he 
               goes. He hears a distant, hard, metallic sound and stops for 
               a moment. Convinced he is alone, he continues on his way.

               In the distance, a pebble tumbles down the steep canyon wall 
               and a small dark figure darts into the shadows. A little 
               further up the canyon a slight flicker of light reveals a 
               pair of eyes in the dark recesses only a few feet from the 
               narrow path.

               The unsuspecting robot waddles along the rugged trail until 
               suddenly, out of nowhere, a powerful magnetic ray shoots out 
               of the rocks and engulfs him in an eerie glow. He manages 
               one short electronic squeak before he topples over onto his 
               back. His bright computer lights flicker off, then on, then 
               off again. Out of the rocks scurry three Jawas, no taller 
               than Artoo. They holster strange and complex weapons as they 
               cautiously approach the robot. They wear grubby cloaks and 
               their faces are shrouded so only their glowing eyes can be 
               seen. They hiss and make odd guttural sounds as they heave 
               the heavy robot onto their shoulders and carry him off down 
               the trail.

               EXT. TATOOINE - ROCK CANYON - SANDCRAWLER - SUNSET

               The eight Jawas carry Artoo out of the canyon to a huge tank-
               like vehicle the size of a four-story house. They weld a 
               small disk on the side of Artoo and then put him under a 
               large tube on the side of the vehicle and the little robot 
               is sucked into the giant machine.

               The filthy little Jawas scurry like rats up small ladders 
               and enter the main cabin of the behemoth transport.

               INT. SANDCRAWLER - HOLD AREA

               It is dim inside the hold area of the Sandcrawler. Artoo 
               switches on a small floodlight on his forehead and stumbles 
               around the scrap heap. The narrow beam swings across rusty 
               metal rocket parts and an array of grotesquely twisted and 
               maimed astro-robots. He lets out a pathetic electronic whimper 
               and stumbles off toward what appears to be a door at the end 
               of the chamber.

               INT. SANDCRAWLER - PRISON AREA

               Artoo enters a wide room with a four-foot ceiling. In the 
               middle of the scrap heap sit a dozen or so robots of various 
               shapes and sizes. Some are engaged in electronic conversation, 
               while others simply mill about. A voice of recognition calls 
               out from the gloom.

                                     THREEPIO
                         Artoo-Detoo! It's you! It's you!

               A battered Threepio scrambles up to Artoo and embraces him.

               EXT. TATOOINE - ROCK CANYON - SANDCRAWLER - SUNSET

               The enormous Sandcrawler lumbers off toward the magnificent 
               twin suns, which are slowly setting over a distant mountain 
               ridge.

               EXT. TATOOINE - DESERT - DAY

               Four Imperial stormtroopers mill about in front of the half-
               buried lifepod that brought Artoo and Threepio to Tatooine. 
               A trooper yells to an officer some distance away.

                                     FIRST TROOPER
                         Someone was in the pod. The tracks 
                         go off in this direction.

               A second trooper picks a small bit of metal out of the sand 
               and gives it to the first trooper.

                                     SECOND TROOPER
                         Look, sir -- droids.

               EXT. TATOOINE - DUNES

               The Sandcrawler moves slowly down a great sand dune.

               INT. SANDCRAWLER

               Threepio and Artoo noisily bounce along inside the cramped 
               prison chamber. Artoo appears to be shut off.

                                     THREEPIO
                         Wake up! Wake up!

               Suddenly the shaking and bouncing of the Sandcrawler stops, 
               creating quite a commotion among the mechanical men.  
               Threepio's fist bangs the head of Artoo whose computer lights 
               pop on as he begins beeping. At the far end of the long 
               chamber a hatch opens, filling the chamber with blinding 
               white light. a dozen or so Jawas make their way through the 
               odd assortment of robots.

                                     THREEPIO
                         We're doomed.

               A Jawa starts moving toward them.

                                     THREEPIO
                         Do you think they'll melt us down?

               Artoo responds, making beeping sounds.

                                     THREEPIO
                         Don't shoot! Don't shoot! Will this 
                         never end?

               EXT. TATOOINE - DESERT - LARS HOMESTEAD - AFTERNOON

               The Jawas mutter gibberish as they busily line up their 
               battered captives, including Artoo and Threepio, in front of 
               the enormous Sandcrawler, which is parked beside a small 
               homestead consisting of three large holes in the ground 
               surrounded by several tall moisture vaporators and one small 
               adobe block house.

               The Jawas scurry around fussing over the robots, straightening 
               them up or brushing some dust from a dented metallic elbow. 
               The shrouded little creatures smell horribly, attracting 
               small insects to the dark areas when their mouths and nostrils 
               should be.

               Out of the shadows of a dingy side-building limps Owen Lars, 
               a large burly man in his mid-fifties. His reddish eyes are 
               sunken in a dust-covered face. As the farmer carefully 
               inspects each robot, he is closely followed by his slump- 
               shouldered nephew, Luke Skywalker. One of the vile little 
               Jawas walks ahead of the farmer spouting an animated sales 
               pitch in a queer, unintelligible language.

               A voice calls out from one of the huge holes that form the 
               homestead. Luke goes over to the edge and sees his Aunt Beru 
               standing in the main courtyard.

                                     BERU
                         Luke, tell Owen that if he gets a 
                         translator to be sure it speaks Bocce.

                                     LUKE
                         It looks like we don't have much of 
                         a choice but I'll remind him.

               Luke returns to his uncle as they look over the equipment 
               for sale with the Jawa leader.

                                     OWEN
                         I have no need for a protocol droid.

                                     THREEPIO
                              (quickly)
                         Sir -- not in an environment such as 
                         this -- that's why I've also been 
                         programmed for over thirty secondary 
                         functions that...

                                     OWEN
                         What I really need is a droid that 
                         understands the binary language of 
                         moisture vaporators.

                                     THREEPIO
                         Vaporators! Sir -- My first job was 
                         programming binary load lifter... 
                         very similar to your vaporators. You 
                         could say...

                                     OWEN
                         Do you speak Bocce?

